---
layout: default
title:  "The Blog"
date:   2024-11-14 20:06:34 -0600
categories: jekyll update
---
## End of Week 1 11/20/24
I started officially Wednesday, November 13th. It is now Wednesday night on the 20th. In the beginning, I wrote a personal manifesto to lay out my reasons for starting and my plans for the project. The long and short of it was summarized in the intro above. With the help of my dad, I assembled the parts of a LEGO Mindstorms kit we had from several years before. After that, we got started on setting up my GitHub repository and this blog. To do so, Jekyll had to be installed. I've got to be honest, I knew Jekyll from Jekyll and Mr. Hyde before this project. Now I can say I have tapped the surface of the deep lake that Jekyll is. Along with that I of course used the terminal, that odd application with the daunting black screen and forbidding empty line block. Git is a not-so-self-explanatory application. It will take me awhile to get the hang of that, but thankfully I have the time. On the more tangible side, we got our first program running on the robot. With a sensor held up to my bright green shirt, the dutiful thing knew to move forward. It has been a week primarily made of setup, but I am not discouraged or quitting. That is more than can be said for a younger me. 

#### Big takeaways (from memory):
-Jekyll is a framework that uses ruby to convert markdown to html. Markdown is what I am using now as I type this. It is basically english from my current viewpoint

-Git is source control application. Source control is the process of creating repositories and tracking change to code. Through Git I was able to connect VS Code to my repository. And, I no longer have to enter my username/password when making changes. How convienent

-Learning is a process. Impatience has been a problem with my method of learning in the past. When I was young, if something didn't come to me quickly, I was much more likely to give up or assume I couldn't do it. I have grown in that way, as I am more patient (scratch that--more aware of my impatience) and can acurately assess things easier.

#### Quote of the Week
I may not do this every week, but I feel like it this time. My dad keeps saying "the obstacle is the way." I thought about this, noted its elegance, and soon forgot it. The next day, however, I was struggling in my chemistry class. I was frustrated because I had misunderstood a concept in class and didn't know why. I decided to go home and throughly review my notes. I was able to make a connection which deeped my understanding of the concept and solved my problem, and in that moment the quote came back to me. Mistakes and obstacles are remembered much easier than the times we figure things out without a problem. When we have them, we also remember the process to solve them and what the solution was. Obstacles make us better learners. Very cool quote brought up by Dad.

## End of Week 2 11/29/24
With setup mostly done, this week was about figuring out what this project will really entail. We decided to brainstorm ideas, getting them written down on a google document. I'll spare you the desheveled mess of information bound to spawn from Dad and I co-editing a doc. But there was talk of catapults and "hydroponic control systems" (we've tried this one before) and the like. We also just had a chance to discuss possibilities out loud. He told me that apparently the mass production of e-books by google was primarily preformed by page-turning robots at incredible speeds. I never considered that physical pictures had to actually be taken.

Later in the week I set off on doing some site cleanup (added an icon for the browser tab) and rearching the intricacies of the Lego Ev3 motors. A fascinating article I read ([Link Here](https://sites.google.com/site/ev3devpython/learn-ev3-python/using-motors)) got into the various features and uses of the motors included in the kit. This research allowed for an intuative understanding of how the color sensors work. We still are using EV3dev1 (most online examples are written for EV3dev2) so there are certain features currently inaccessible to us, but using ChatGPT (what a tool) I converted EV3dev2 into code usable for EV3dev1. I then got a line-following app running. Defining a desired light intensity and using the colorsensor for actual light intensity, an error variable finds the difference of the two. That difference is then multiplied by a proportional gain value for the "turn_rate." The "turn_rate" is added to the base speed of the left motor and subtracted from the base speed of the right. This obviously doesn't work if the line followed oscilates (or goes left). But it is a work in progress, and an exciting challenge. Next, we will figure a way to get that working with the one lightsensor. And buy some electrical tape. The offbrand expo marker wasn't cutting it for the line.

#### Big takeaways:
-ChatGPT is an incredible tool. While it is not always right, it is money when starting out on a project. When used and not abused, it revolutionizes modern learning.

-Git gets easier. That sounded funny, but in reality it isn't just git. Everything gets easier with consistency. It doesn't take long to get the hang of these things. A very refreshing prospect.

## End of Week 3 12/6/24
Another week down. Time flies, huh? Well, we finished up our first iteration of the "Line Follower." And just for future reference, when I say "we" I mean "my dad and I." He is a software engineer turned teacher. Not really, but he's been the one showing me the ropes. I am getting better at grasping the concepts, using git, and coding in general. He has been a huge help in all of those things. Anyway, the rudementary ["line follower"](https://github.com/MarkMavis26/starterlego/blob/main/motorturn.py) code block was a fun challenge. We had a black line made of electrical tape, and a color sensing robot on treads. We wanted it to follow the line as accurately as possible. It was a fun combo of software "engineering" as my dad calls it (the process of writing concise and well organized code which is easy to read and manipulate) and using critical thinking skills to work around the big elephant in the room: we had one color sensor. As one with basic coding knowledge would surely understand, the presence of multiple color sensors would allow for an easy solution. Something along the lines of, "if they both detect black, bingo! If not, well, rotate until they both detect black!" Not that the real process was much more complex, but yours truly is very new to robotics. Thankfully, I was able to put together some functional code and get it rolling. 

#### Big Takeaways
-When I set to work to try to figure out the problem on my own, I discovered that a "range" function existed. This allows for a variable to be set to multiple numbers in a range, which made the color sensor much easier to use. You see, to set a target light intensity for the sensor to follow, I had to test the light intensity of the tape. The brace holding the sensor being less than perfect, it would be closer and farther away from the tape on a day to day basis. This of course changed the value of the intensity each time I tested it. With the range, I did not have to change the target intensity every time I ran the program. Convienent!


-Software engineering is cool. The process of consolidating code is very satisfying. I defined various functions and set the values of the rotation angle, speed, etc. I would do this for each of the motors, which accounted for several unecessary lines of code. My dad showed me that I could simply make one function with rotation angle, speed, etc. passed as variables inside it. This would contain instructions to run the motors that could be called in the functions for left motor and right motor. Simply changing the values for speed, rotation angle, etc. gives you a concise way of doing the same thing. I just did a very poor job of explaining this process, but these descriptions are usually from memory and all part of the learning process for me. Dad and I usually go over my mistakes later on. Who knows, you may even get my edited version and think me a prodigy!

#### The Week
I don't have a quote, but there is something to discuss. [The Wall](https://open.spotify.com/album/5Dbax7G8SWrP9xyzkOvy2F?si=Q_0zoIclT3Wq4EE-4Nizrg). The invisible barrier which separates us from our deepest vulnerabilities. Not to get too personal on this blog about robots, but it is very relevant in my life. Anything and everything which may have affected me negatively in my past, no matter the degree, added support to this barrier. It built up significantly overtime. When I felt like falling, I knew the solid surface would give me something to lean on. I fell into a lapse, a pattern. It is a dangerous, unfulfilling comfort. Instead of looking my shortcomings and potential in the eye and facing up to them, I pretending I couldn't see them through the thick wall. The trick is, the wall is transparent. I've always known that, too. Now, I am not going to preach about how to take the sledgehammer and break it down, because if I knew how to do that I wouldn't bother to write any of this. But I think it is something to be aware of. Something to sand down.
Now how does this relate to tech? I don't know, specifically. I would assume, though, that many of us avoid reaching our full potential because it lies just beyond the Wall.

