---
layout: default
title: "Week 34"
order: 31
categories: blog
---
## End of Week 34 07/13/25
Results for the AP exams came back. I got all 5's. Solid gold. Great, now I can move on. Common App, the place where all of my applying will take place, opens August first. Until then, I will still be hard at work, just with other stuff. I will eventually refine my essays, and as I write, I am in the midst of the game engine AND battery projects. Exciting stuff. The framework for the game engine has been layed. I am writing it in Javascript, not Python, so there is a little bit of a learning (relearning) curve. I followed a tutorial to set up the basics, which just means I copied the code and read what it does. The subsequent parts to the tutorial have yet to be published, though, and I am taking their absence as a nudge to do the rest on my own. In other words, I am going to try to actually WRITE some code. That is why I chose the game engine project, after all. We will see where that takes me. The battery project is underway, and you can read up on our progress so far in the battery section of the "Projects" menu. A recent update is that Uncle has ordered a breadboard and wiring, and they are being shipped to my house. 

#### Weekly Thoughts
It is dreary and cold outside, an after affect of much needed rain. As I type this in my room downstairs, the moist E-Gress window is my only source of light, an ominous reminder of the next few days. See, today was supposed to be my last day of work before two days off. I got called off early. Consequently, my break has begun early, and I am all too aware of my lack of stimulation. When I was a little kid, there was nothing I loved more than a day off, a day of nothing but TV, video games, and eating. Nowadays, a day like that is harmful to my mental health. I may have done all this to myself. One of the only reasonable explanations I can think of as to why I can no longer sit still is that I have been moving for so long. Its almost as if I'm addicted to working, exercising, and productivity. I know, I know, cry me a river right? I'm just saying, I have got to figure something out. It is two days for now, but just a little ways down the road, it is the reality of ungodly free time in college. I have begun planning, and have already decided to rededicate myself to exercise and healthy eating. That will help, and so will intense studying and dedication to learning. But there is something else, and there always has been. The addiction to productivity is one possibility, but another feasable explination could be that I am using outer stimulation to mask what's really bothering me, and that when I am not working, I'm thinking. How can I find peace in times of peace? I may never know. My dad never could figure it out. His dad couldn't. It troubles me. Maybe I'll do some calculus, stop worrying about it.